From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
28 recorded Monday, August 7th, 2006. Support
for Hanselman it's is provided
by COVID Smith tools, makers
of coach Smith, an extensible
template base code generator for.net
and now handsome. And his
listeners get a hundred dollars
off coach Smith professional with
coupon code H M 100.
online@covidsmithtools.com. Support is also provided
by exceeds zip for.net, which
lets you handle zip tar
and jesus' files on FTP
servers in streams and memory.
And more. Now get 20%
off any exceed component or
suite just for listening to
handsome minutes, just go to
shrink stir.com/f P T and
use the code H M
dash 20 dash 20. And
don't forget to visit Peter
bloom.com. Start with better controls
finish with better sites online@peterblum.com
and.net developers journal the world's
leading.net developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, Scott discusses
open source. Hi, this is
Carl Franklin. You're listening to Hansel
minutes. I'm here with Scott
Hanselman as I am every
week. Hi Scott, How are
you, sir? We're talking about
open source this week. We
are, that's a big topic,
isn't it? It is big
topic for a little podcast
is open source a crap
idea. This is a blog
post that you wrote. Yeah,
this was from a little
while back. I just wanted
to throw it out there
and see what people thought.
This is from March. And
it was about an article
in the economist on open
source. And it had an
interesting graph that I thought
was worth noting that was
referencing the Apache community and
the number of people having
discussions about open source software
projects versus the number of
people actually writing code. And
of course the graph that
shows the number of people,
holding discussions and number of
people talking was nice, you
know, Y equals X sharp
45 degree angle. And the
number of code writers was
tiny, tiny, tiny, you know,
the number of people actually
doing work in open source
versus talking about it is
a pretty dramatic ratio Seems
to be more like a
philosophical topic, right? For most
people. Yeah. And everyone wants
to use free software, right.
Everyone is consistently amazed. If
you download a copy of
who Boone to Linux and
you go, Holy crap, this
is amazing. Or just any
really good free Software. Oh
yeah. But do you really
think that it's, that is
free, right? I mean, keep
in mind that people are
starting foundations in order to
make this happen. Right. I
mean, the guy that started
who Boone, who is a
billionaire for a reason, it's
not just people in their
garage, in their spare time
for the really big, awesome,
amazing stuff. Right. So I
was just going to kind
of wanted to talk about
that and explore the idea
that what does it mean
to be free, right. There's
a lot of really interesting
discussions about that. Particularly a
good one at a
dot org, shrink stir slash
the philosophy of free
software, the discussion of what,
what does free mean? Right.
Are we talking about free?
Like, like  like it's
free, complete them in
or are we talking about
free as in Libra, as
in, to be free to
be released, to be, you
know, free as in speech
or free as in beer,
right? The free software definition,
the free software foundation says
that free software is a
matter of Liberty, not price,
so free speech versus free
beer. And it says here,
and it's in the definition,
I'll just read part of
the definition that the freedom
to run the program, the
freedom to study the program,
the freedom to redistribute the
copies so you can help
your neighbor and the freedom
to improve it. I think
that's a really great definition
of free software. When I
think about the open source
projects that I'm involved in,
like, like DAS blog, those
are all the great things
that, that I would like
to us blog to be
able to do. Hmm. Now
w what are your opinions
about, I mean, I think
you're forming them here, but
what are your opinions about
open source? I mean, you're
a, you're an ass peanut
guy, you know, you're a
Microsoft software guy. You make
your living using Microsoft software,
which is not open source.
And yet you love to
play around with Linux and,
you know, you've been doing
that for a long time.
That's a good question. I
don't think that opensource is
necessarily a Lennox thing, right?
I mean, yes, Microsoft itself
and their software is close,
closed source, but didn't you
think that when, when we
got into the.net world, something
changed, there was a, a
community, a sense of community
around.net. Lots of dotnet code
was released. There was a
sense of sharing, Not only
that Scott, but the sense
of do we really need
the source code when we
have tools like reflector and
we have inheritance and we,
you know, do we want
or need the source code?
Yeah, that's a good point.
I mean, without an outfit
skater, it's pretty, you know,
the programmer's intent is pretty
much there. So suddenly all
of the different kind of
what I call horizontal things,
you know, things that aren't
specific or vertical to your
business, all the horizontal things
became commoditized. No, one's gonna
make a bajillion dollars on
a, a, a new kind
of text box or a
JPEG decoder, but, you know,
they might do something amazing
with that with a JPEG,
once they've got a Dakota
doing some kind of analysis
on it. So the kinds
of things you'd want to
be free, or that, that
horizontal part, that base of
the pyramid that you build
your big giant thing on
the operating system. Yeah. Operating
system, big applications, suites of
applications. But is it really
like, for example, here, let's
look at Kirlian, right? Kirlian
makes online banking software. That's
the company that I'm the
chief architect at and something
like 25% of the retail
bank banking people in the
U S use Kirlian. We
use opensource software. That doesn't
mean that Kirlian is built
on open source software. That
means that there are pieces
of things within the chromium
platform that's built on Microsoft
that is open source because
is it really curly job
to write the next greatest
logger or, you know, Kirlian
need to be building a
test framework? You know, we
do finance, we do online
retail, you finance that has
nothing to do with logging.
So Microsoft didn't have a
logger, someone else out there
made an awesome one. So
then we looked at log
for net, which actually gets
into an interesting discussion about
how do you incorporate open
source into your, into your
life. And licensing is the
topic of that, right. And
licensing. Yeah, absolutely. There's a
number of interesting links on
licensing shrink stir slash H
seven D up@theopensource.org site has
a whole list of licenses,
all the different kinds. It's
more than just the, the
canoe public, the general, the
GPL, the general public license.
There's also the very popular,
you know, BSD license, Berkeley
license. There's gosh, what do
we have that there's piles
and piles of licenses here
that you can pick? The
one that you like, the
Apache license Sockets originally BSD
sockets itself, Berkeley software, the
guys at Burton, or the
Berkeley software, that, that name
comes up all the time.
Whether it be that, you
know, in the first, in
the context of the, of
sockets. So you used to
say Berkeley Rockets, right. And
when sock was based on
that, There is, there used
to be a thing underneath
the, the stack and Unix
that people would say, well,
this is the spur Berkeley
socket to the BSD socket
API. This was an API
in Unix in 1980, 83,
84. And it was the
standard for sockets. And I
don't know where it came
from. I'm sure the Wikipedia
would let, let me know,
but that socket interface became
a standard thing. And then
the Berkeley software license is
different. Okay. Just give us
an idea of the main
differences between say BSD and
GPL, because I've heard Microsoft
say that they're not anti
open source, but they're anti
GPL. Yeah, exactly. So GPL
is what if I understand
correctly here, and it'd be
very interesting to have a
conversation with people who listen
that the GPL is what
they call viral in the
sense that when, when the,
when the GPL, when the
new public license is attached
to something that you write,
let's say, I write it.
Let's say I write a
logger. Well, that's not a,
probably not a very good
example, but if I write
a piece of software and
then I extend it in
some way, it is important
for me to release the
source for my extension. Yes.
A really good example of
this. Actually, here's a great
example. The guys at Sophia
soft wrote a, we talked
about them on our links
to show, right? When we
talked about extending the links
as router, right? They took
some, some open source GPL
software and extended it, but
they put a great deal
of money into it. And
they extended it in a
very large way. And there
was an argument amongst them
and a large number of
the members of the community
that they had not released
that software in a very
forthcoming way. So people said,
well, they have, they have
broken the rules of the,
of the GPL license. And
we demand that they release
that software. And then it
became this big pissing contest.
Well, they would, people would
host copies of their source.
And then, you know, so
then the question became, what
is it that those guys
did, you know, where, what
did, what did they add?
What is the benefit that
they added and what do
they own versus what should
be released back to the,
to the outside world? Right?
So, so for people to
do it in the correct
way, the, the, the really
classy way, I think a
good example is what Joel
Spolsky did he, you know,
Joel Spolsky at Joel on
software wrote a thing called
the fog Creek copilot it's
basically, they took VNC, right?
VNC is a GPL, a
remote desktop kind of a
thing. And they wrote a
new really neat tool where
you can go into copilot.com.
You pay him like 10
bucks. And then for 24
hours, you can connect to
remote machines and help your
mom and do things like
that. What's different from it
versus then, you know, the
value added with what's different
between it and the remote
desktop stuff that's built into
windows is that copilot goes
through firewalls. So they basically
wrote a Nat traversal, a
network address, translation, traversal technique
for VNC by extending tight
VNC. So if you go
up to copilot.com and then
you click on their FAC
and you go to the
bottom, it says, how do
I obtain the source code?
Right. They build a whole
business model around this. They
built, they put a lot
of work into it. They
had four interns working for
a summer on this thing,
but at the bottom, they
said, Hey, here's a copy.
You can click. They've got
a zip file, all prepared.
They only make it click
in two places and then
boom, the sources there. So
then the question is, well,
how would they make any
money while they make it
by charging people to use
the service, which is what
you've said exactly. It's the
service, it's the key exchange.
I mean, you can go
and see their source. They
released it to the world.
They put a great deal
of work and value into
it. But the business model
isn't truly and completely dependent
on the source. So some
people they'll feel much more
strongly that their sources really
the, the big intellectual property.
So they'll get into a
trap or they'll start up
working on something on, on
open source, a GPL, licensed
software, they extend it. They
go, wow, I really added
some value. That's not something
I want to give out
to the world. And then
that's where you get into
the trouble. And the BSD
license is different. I believe
the BSD license is a
lot more relaxed. The canoe
license is like 3000 words.
And the BSD license is
like 300 words. So the,
the, the, the BSD licenses,
basically this has no warranty.
It's pretty much as is.
There's no way we're going
to be liable for anything.
And go ahead and do
your thing, enjoy yourself. And
don't bother us. And you
don't have to rerelease changes
and modifications. People believe that
the BSD license is more
free than the GPL because
the BSD says they can
do anything they want to.
Okay. I mean, BSD is
darn near public domain. What
is the whole free as
in beer thing? Welcome. Yeah.
So if you go to
a shrink stir slash
up at the, up at
the ward, Cunningham, Portland pattern,
repository free as in beer
is the idea of, you
know, you go to a
party and there's free beer,
that's it. You pick it
up, you drink it. You're
cool. You don't have to
pay for it. You don't
have to think about it.
And it doesn't, it has
no maintenance, right? So free
software people always say, well,
how free is this? Is
it truly free? And do
anything I want to with
it? Or is it more
kind of free as in
speech? So that, that, that
differentiation between frees and beach
that we talked about before
Libra versus grantees, what It
strikes me right off the
bat about this is that,
you know, everything is free
as in speech, because speech
is free under the law.
You know, you ha you
have the right to use
software. You have the right
to buy software, whether it's
free or not, you have
the right to use it,
don't you? Well, so you're
the right to use it.
But the trick is, is
the source code available to
the users. And can you
redistribute the source code? Right?
So free software is anything
that you can run, study
redistribute or improve right now,
when you add something like,
like a canoe, you're taking
all of those things, and
then you're adding the source
code, absolutely must be available
to the users, right? You
cannot use this. You cannot
give the software away without
giving the source away as
well. Right? And here's the
trick and you cannot sell
it. You cannot redistribute it
under a different license, right?
And that's where you get
trouble. And we've seen, and
this is why we distribute.
This is why Clemons rather
made the decision to distribute
Dodge blog under BSD, Nutella,
the company that Clemens masters
work for when they started
the DAS blog project under
the guise of Nutella, essence
corporation said, we reserve the
right as new Teligent to
take this, improve it, not
release the source and make
money on it. And you
can too. So we, you
know, we've had companies say,
well, we're interested in extending
dash blog and making money
on it. And we say,
that's cool and good for
you. We wish you would
give the source out, but
it's not a viral. We're
not going to take your,
your improvements and force you
to return it. Okay. So
what open source software do
you use? I mean, we
use log for net Nant
and unit and cover. I
use VNC. I use that
quite a bit. In fact,
we're using it right now
in our class, the Miguel
Castro's here teaching. We have
three people in the classroom
and three people remotely. So
in the remotes use VNC
to watch his screen Slick.
Now, have you, have you
personally given any source code
back to an open source
project? Have you catched something?
Nope. Is that because you
haven't found a bug or
it's just because It's just
because it's not what I
do, you know? Yeah. They
were asking the wrong guy.
No, that's cool. So there
was a big discussion between
myself, Phil hack, Jeff Atwood
about, you know, is open
source free, like a flower.
Phil said it was free,
like a flower shrink stir
slash H seven, six, basically.
You know, you get to,
to look at it and
smell it and enjoy it.
And they go, it's all
about, you know, love and
apparently flowers. I don't particularly
think that's a very good
analogy. I said that it
was free like a puppy,
because it requires care and
feeding. You have no guarantee
when you get an open
source piece of software that
it may disappear, but the
guys that are writing it,
you know, we just saw
with the, the end doc,
lot of confusion about this
end doc thing, and doc
goes away. We also, this
is the thing, though. It
went away in the sense
that the, the gentleman who
was working on it has
decided to no longer work
on it, but there's still
a large team. Right. There's
still a fork. This is
another thing that happens with
opensource software is when it
forks. Right. So end dock
was on 1.3, somewhere out
there as a Mendota 2.0
code, but 1.3 has been
improved and they've got it
working on a dotnet two.
Oh. And then you've got
things like sand castle when
Microsoft comes out of nowhere
with their, you know, blank
killer. So for Nant it
was ms. Build. And for
end docket appears to be
sand castle, which is the
new document builder from, from
Microsoft. Right. So I said
that it was a free,
like a, a free, like
a puppy. And then Jeff
Atwood from coding horror at
shrink slash H 77, he
said, if open source software
required as much effort as
raising a puppy, your local
pound would be even more
full than it already is.
So I was basically saying,
I think we as developers,
I mean, think about this,
just the fact that we're
listening to this podcast or
we're blogging, or we're even
reading blogs means that the
group of developers that we
are kind of, we are
our, you know, our peer
group, you, me, the people
listening, the people who blog
are already at a, a
national honor or an upper
level of, of developer in
consciousness in the sense that
they are thoughtful, interested in
improving themselves and becoming better,
they're already at a level
of quality or at least
that they are trying to
improve themselves while so few.
And when, so few do,
right, there's the, what I
call five Oh one developers,
you know, it's like, Hey,
it's five Oh one, can
I punch out? Yep. So
I was proposing that it
is important for us to
give back to the community.
And I think that the
best thing that you can
do to give back to
the community is fixing bugs,
fixing bugs. I did a
little article on how to
contribute a patch to an
open source project without being
the administrator at shrinks or
slash H seven, five. And
a lot of really interesting
discussion came up around it
because Jeff believes the whole
point is to save us
time just to keep us
from rewriting software. So for
him open source equals reuse.
Right? Well, you know, for
me, open source is more
of a gift. And I
don't think it's a good
idea to just take that
gift and not give something
back. So I think that
if it were easy, if
it were just incredibly easy
to contribute a patch to
an open source piece of
software that would make life
a lot, a lot easier.
I think that often I'll
download a piece of software,
maybe a bug will happen,
and then I'll see like
a call stack. It'll even
show me the line number
and I'll dig into it
for five minutes and I'll
go, Oh, wow, he's messing
with a Knoll there. You
know, if there was a
button to push or a
way to fix it, or
let him know that this
is something that is easily
fixed. That's great. It's amazing
to me how people will
file bug reports with detailed
information about exactly what went
wrong, complete reproduction instructions, but
they won't bother to fix
it. Now, the argument is
by by Jeff and some
of the detractors is that
that's unrealistic that the, the
amount of time it would
take to learn that particular
piece of software to poke
around and, and to, to
figure out how it fits
in with the other pieces.
It's just unreasonable to expect
someone to jump in on
us, a piece of software
like that. Right. I can
see that point of view,
but I don't think that
that's a blanket point of
view. There are times when
you can find something obvious
and fix something obvious. And
that's a really great way
to give back. I have
a question for you, Scott.
I'm sure there are lots
of listeners of Hanselman it's
dot net rocks, whatever people
that follow our shows. And,
and they, they have little
pet projects that they've started,
maybe their components, maybe their
utilities, you know, software, but
like most of the software
that we write and mess
around with, it just goes
in an hierarchy and in
our disc somewhere archived forever.
What advantage, if any, would
we have in taking those
pieces of software in whatever
state they're currently in which
might not be completely working
and release them under a
public domain license, put up
a site and say, all
right, have at it, anybody
want to jump on here
and take over? There you
go. No, that's a really
great question. And then that
from, for me, there's, there
is a hierarchy of open
source projects, right? Is this
something that a group of
people are going to be
excited about interested in enough
in that they're going to
stick with it for awhile?
Is it a snippet, an
applet, a technique, or is
it an application? You know,
I think that places like
code project, while I've called
code project.com a bathroom wall
of software before there, there
are, it is a self
moderating place. You know, the
cream rises to the top
there. If you go to
code project and you find
a highly rated, highly thought
of, you know, obviously maintained
article with a technique released
as open source. I think
that, you know, lots of
people out there might have
a chunk of code that
they could put up there,
write a quick article. And
if it's great, people will
discover it. And it'll, it'll
rise to the top. I've
done this myself. I have
a lot of little projects
that demonstrate how to do
things the summer demos in
summer, actually full blown components
that I've just released on
my Franklin net website with
source code, without any, any
license whatsoever just here, take
this, use it. And, you
know, I never even thought
about if you have anything
to contribute back to it,
you know, what do you
do? So, I mean, I
guess that's where the whole
license thing is very helpful
because, you know, I'm sure
somebody would like to modify
it and they'd probably end
up emailing it back to
me. So I could put
it up on the site
again. But you know, there
isn't any formal structure around
that. Is the, is there
a benefit to a developer
to doing that? Or should
we just keep these things
to ourselves? I guess? Well,
I think it's about size.
I think if it's small,
you should put it up
somewhere, like, like a forum,
like code project. If it
is a, considering a pretty
good sized application, I think
that somewhere like code Plex
or SourceForge or open QA
or any of the many
open source hosting places you
can put stuff at is
a good idea, except you
don't want it to be
orphaned. Right? You want it
to just disappear right. More
and more. I'm noticing groups
of folks getting together and
little kind of mini consortium's
and releasing tools, putting together
a formal tool site. Like
you noticed that, you know,
Roy  has been releasing
tools for years. And then
recently just said, you know,
I need a tools dot
dot com to put
all this stuff at, you
know, maybe it's time for
tools.franklin.com and then maybe it's
time for some kind of
a search engine specific to
that kind of stuff, because
these are your projects, but
they're not necessarily big enough
Or popular enough. I mean,
you know, a lot of
minor, a lot of the
ones that I have are
components, you know, but I
have some really interesting things,
like, for example, voiceover IP,
I've got a solution for
that. I mean, I have
a voiceover IP solution that
works pretty well, and I've
just been sitting on it,
mini mini in one and
output I've that? Well, here's
an idea. There is, there
is a site pop culture.
Here's another one. There is
a site called project distributor.net
that Darren Nimkee has got
up there. It just, it
literally just project distributor.net. And
basically if you don't have
a blog and you have
some source, you're not really
interested in building a community
and you want to throw
it up somewhere and have
it hosted. Yeah. Project distributor.net
has dozens and dozens of
projects. You can group them,
you can add administrators, you
can have multiple releases and
it's just basically a place
to store your zip files.
So if you've got some
intellectual property and some, some
thoughtful stuff, and you want
to throw it out there,
I think that's a great
place. It sounds like a
lot of the stuff that
you've got would, could belong
up something like that. I
would put a license on
it though. Right. You know,
without a license it's, it's
found, it's kind of found
stuff. Even if the license
is, I'm not liable for
you ruining your life with
my source code. So, So
then, then would you go
to www.opensource.orgslashlicensesorhshrinks.com H seven D,
is that where you would
start? I would go up
there and I would pick
one. That was, that made
sense to you? I think
that the BSD license is
the kind of the closest
thing to the don't Sue
me and enjoy kind of
license. Right? Yeah. And if,
if somebody wants to use
it in a commercial product,
that's totally okay. Yeah. Cause
you understand, when you put
source code out like that
and you know, you might
want to say I'd like
my name in the source
code. Right. And there are
licenses that basically say, don't
remove my name, make sure
that I get credit. I,
you know, this copyright notice
must remain on. Or what
about a license that says,
you know, you can feel
free to use it, but
if you're gonna use it
in commercial software, you need
to, you know, work out
a royalty arrangement with me
or something. Is there, Yeah.
Those licenses exist. You can
do that. There's various modified
versions of all these different
licenses. There's a whole, whole
series of them up@theopensource.org licenses
site. And you can certainly,
you know, write your own,
but chances are someone else
has already thought of it.
Yeah. Or you can just
be, you know, really awesome.
And just give your software
way. Like if you go
to sliver.com, you know, Jeff Key
has been putting up little
applets up there in zip
files, full of source for
years, it's a treasure trove
of, of.net goodness. And he
just basically throws up there
and they are amazing applications.
Applets often he'll write an
article around them and put
the article up on, on
MSDN. I mean, he's almost
kind of a one man.
SourceForge okay. You could certainly
do that, but get it
out there. I mean, if
you've got COVID on your
hard drive, put it out
there, Google will find that
eventually. So looking at our
list of links, what, what
haven't we talked about? Let
me see. We talked about
contributing a patch. If you
have, if you're involved in
an open source project or
maybe that you are some
software, make sure that you
read about how to contribute
a patch because chances are,
you may have found a
bug and chances are, you
know, how to fix it
shrinks your slash H seven
five. Also, if you use
things like CVS or subversion,
we've got a tutorial on
how to use what are
called universal dif files or
patch files at shrink stir
slash H seven four. And
the, we know the Wikipedia,
even though it is managed
by the people has some
very good information on different
kinds of licenses. I've read
all the different articles it
has on specific on software
licensing. And for the most
part, it's, it's very well
written. It's very thoughtful and
it offers a very, fairly
balanced view of the different
licenses as well as the
BSD versus GPL arguments. Frankly,
just get, get involved, remember
that when you download software
that is free and use
it, someone probably spent a
weekend or many weekends working
on that stuff. You know,
even if you just think
about it and think, wow,
Hey, thanks guy. Or drop
them a note. Like, what
is it? I think it
says, slick run my favorite
launcher. It's got, I think
it's the, as you install
it, he pops up a
dialogue that says he can
fill out the survey and
tell me what you think,
you know, will you, will
you reward the developer with
a single minute of your
time? Hmm. I think what
a thoughtful way to do
that is even if it's
compliment where or post postcard
where, you know, do that,
don't just download it and
then get pissed off because
it doesn't work the way
you want. Okay, Scott. Well,
It really opened my eyes
a bit to the world
of open source. I hope
that the listeners have been
educated as well as always.
Thanks a lot. You're welcome.
All right. And we'll see
you next week on handsome.